README.md, before:

# Mantine Split Pane Component

<img width="2752" height="1536" alt="Mantine Split Pane" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e4577e9a-b301-49f7-b4d4-62568c1fd69c" />

<div align="center">

  [![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40gfazioli%2Fmantine-split-pane?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane)
  [![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/%40gfazioli%2Fmantine-split-pane?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane)
  [![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dy/%40gfazioli%2Fmantine-split-pane?style=for-the-badge&label=%20&color=f90)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane)
  ![NPM License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/%40gfazioli%2Fmantine-split-pane?style=for-the-badge)


</div>

## Overview

This component is created on top of the [Mantine](https://mantine.dev/) library.

[![Mantine UI Library](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MANTINE_UI_LIBRARY-blue?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=mantine
)](https://mantine.dev/)

Utilizing Mantine UI, enables users to create a flexible layout with resizable split panes. It supports both vertical and horizontal splitting, allowing the arrangement of content in various configurations. The component seamlessly handles nested split panes, enabling complex layouts with ease.
With intuitive resizing functionality, users can adjust the size of each pane effortlessly. This component provides a responsive and user-friendly interface for organizing and displaying content in a way that best suits the application's needs.

[![Mantine Extensions](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Watch_the_Video-blue?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=youtube
)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL85tTROKkZrWyqCcmNCdWajpx05-cTal4)
[![Demo and Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Demo_%26_Documentation-blue?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=typescript
)](https://gfazioli.github.io/mantine-split-pane/)
[![Mantine Extensions HUB](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Mantine_Extensions_Hub-blue?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=blue
)](https://mantine-extensions.vercel.app/)

👉 You can find more components on the [Mantine Extensions Hub](https://mantine-extensions.vercel.app/) library.

## Installation

```sh
npm install @gfazioli/mantine-split-pane
```
or 

```sh
yarn add @gfazioli/mantine-split-pane
```

After installation import package styles at the root of your application:

```tsx
import '@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane/styles.css';
```

## Usage

```tsx
import { Split } from '@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane';
import { Paper } from '@mantine/core';

function Demo() {
  return (
    <Split>
      <Split.Pane>
        <Paper withBorder w="100%" mih="100%">
          <h1>Pane 1</h1>
        </Paper>
      </Split.Pane>

      <Split.Resizer />

      <Split.Pane>
        <Paper withBorder>
          <h1>Pane 2</h1>
        </Paper>
      </Split.Pane>
    </Split>
  );
}
```

<div align="center">
  
[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=gfazioli/mantine-split-pane&type=Timeline)](https://www.star-history.com/#gfazioli/mantine-split-pane&Timeline)

</div>

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2e45af2b-60c7-4cb3-9b9a-6cf0e710af1c

Commit message:

Revise README for Mantine Split component
Updated README to enhance clarity and detail about the Mantine Split component, including new features and usage instructions.

README.md, after:

# Mantine Split Pane Component

<img width="2752" height="1536" alt="Mantine Split Pane" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e4577e9a-b301-49f7-b4d4-62568c1fd69c" />

<div align="center">

  [![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40gfazioli%2Fmantine-split-pane?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane)
  [![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/%40gfazioli%2Fmantine-split-pane?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane)
  [![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dy/%40gfazioli%2Fmantine-split-pane?style=for-the-badge&label=%20&color=f90)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane)
  ![NPM License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/%40gfazioli%2Fmantine-split-pane?style=for-the-badge)


</div>

## Overview

This component is created on top of the [Mantine](https://mantine.dev/) library.


[Mantine Split](https://gfazioli.github.io/mantine-split-pane/) extension for building flexible, resizable layouts composed of multiple panes. In v2, the architecture separates pane content (Split.Pane) from the resizing control (Split.Resizer), making the resizer a first-class, customizable element placed between panes. 

Developers can define initial sizes in pixels or percentages, enforce min/max constraints, and use the grow property to let specific panes expand to fill available space. Orientation supports horizontal and vertical layouts, including responsive breakpoints, while the resizer can inherit global props from Split or be configured per instance, including a gradient variant with hover styles. 

The component exposes resize lifecycle events on both the pane and resizer—delivering current width/height for one or both adjacent panes—enabling persistence of layouts via localStorage and real‑time UI feedback. Accessibility is built in: the resizer is focusable and supports keyboard resizing with configurable step and shiftStep values. Overall, it offers a clear JSX structure and a robust API for multi‑pane, highly controllable split views in Mantine applications.

> [!note]
>
> → [Demo and Documentation](https://gfazioli.github.io/mantine-split-pane/) → [Youtube Video](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL85tTROKkZrWyqCcmNCdWajpx05-cTal4) → [More Mantine Components](https://mantine-extensions.vercel.app/)

## Installation

```sh
npm install @gfazioli/mantine-split-pane
```
or 

```sh
yarn add @gfazioli/mantine-split-pane
```

After installation import package styles at the root of your application:

```tsx
import '@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane/styles.css';
```

## Usage

```tsx
import { Split } from '@gfazioli/mantine-split-pane';
import { Paper } from '@mantine/core';

function Demo() {
  return (
    <Split>
      <Split.Pane>
        <Paper withBorder w="100%" mih="100%">
          <h1>Pane 1</h1>
        </Paper>
      </Split.Pane>

      <Split.Resizer />

      <Split.Pane>
        <Paper withBorder>
          <h1>Pane 2</h1>
        </Paper>
      </Split.Pane>
    </Split>
  );
}
```

---
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2e45af2b-60c7-4cb3-9b9a-6cf0e710af1c

---
[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=gfazioli/mantine-split-pane&type=Timeline)](https://www.star-history.com/#gfazioli/mantine-split-pane&Timeline)
